Cybersecurity is the ongoing effort to protect individuals, organizations and governments from digital attacks by protecting networked systems and data from unauthorized use or harm.

Some other useful tips to help you generate your username:

Don’t use your full name or parts of your address or phone number.
Don’t use your email username.
Don’t use the same username and password combination, especially on financial accounts.
Don’t choose a super-odd username and then reuse it again and again — it makes you easier to track.
Don’t choose a username that gives clues to your passwords such as a series of numbers/letters, the first part of a two-part phrase, such as knock-knock or starlight, or the department in which you work, such as IT.
Do choose a username that’s appropriate for the type of account, i.e., business, social or personal.\

Types of Organizational Data
1) Traditional data is typically generated and maintained by all organizations, big and small. It includes the following:

Transactional data such as details relating to buying and selling, production activities and basic organizational operations such as any information used to make employment decisions.
Intellectual property such as patents, trademarks and new product plans, which allows an organization to gain economic advantage over its competitors. This information is often considered a trade secret and losing it could prove disastrous for the future of a company.
Financial data such as income statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements, which provide insight into the health of a company.

2) Internet of Things (IoT) and Big Data
IoT is a large network of physical objects, such as sensors, software and other equipment. All of these ‘things’ are connected to the Internet, with the ability to collect and share data. And given that storage options are expanding through the cloud and virtualization, it’s no surprise that the emergence of IoT has led to an exponential growth in data, creating a new area of interest in technology and business called 'Big Data.'


->McCumber Cube 
It is a model framework created by John McCumber in 1991 to help organizations establish and evaluate information security initiatives by considering all of the related factors that impact them. This security model has three dimensions:
1.The foundational principles for protecting information systems.
2.The protection of information in each of its possible states.
3.The security measures used to protect data.

FOUNDATIONAL PRINCIPLES TO STORE DATA:
Confidentiality is a set of rules that prevents sensitive information from being disclosed to unauthorized people, resources and processes. Methods to ensure confidentiality include data encryption, identity proofing and two factor authentication.

Integrity ensures that system information or processes are protected from intentional or accidental modification. One way to ensure integrity is to use a hash function or checksum.

Availability means that authorized users are able to access systems and data when and where needed and those that do not meet established conditions, are not. This can be achieved by maintaining equipment, performing hardware repairs, keeping operating systems and software up to date, and creating backups.

PROTECTION ODF INFORMATION AT EACH STATE:
Processing refers to data that is being used to perform an operation such as updating a database record (data in process).

Storage refers to data stored in memory or on a permanent storage device such as a hard drive, solid-state drive or USB drive (data at rest).

Transmission refers to data traveling between information systems (data in transit).

SECURITY MEASURES TO STORE DATA:
Awareness, training and education are the measures put in place by an organization to ensure that users are knowledgeable about potential security threats and the actions they can take to protect information systems.

Technology refers to the software- and hardware-based solutions designed to protect information systems such as firewalls, which continuously monitor your network in search of possible malicious incidents.

Policy and procedure refers to the administrative controls that provide a foundation for how an organization implements information assurance, such as incident response plans and best practice guidelines.


->Types of Hackers
White hat attackers break into networks or computer systems to identify any weaknesses so that the security of a system or network can be improved. These break-ins are done with prior permission and any results are reported back to the owner.
Gray hat attackers may set out to find vulnerabilities in a system but they will only report their findings to the owners of a system if doing so coincides with their agenda. Or they might even publish details about the vulnerability on the internet so that other attackers can exploit it.
Black hat attackers take advantage of any vulnerability for illegal personal, financial or political gain.

->Organized hackers
These attackers include organizations of cyber criminals, hacktivists, terrorists and state-sponsored hackers. They are usually highly sophisticated and organized, and may even provide cybercrime as a service to other criminals.

Hacktivists make political statements to create awareness about issues that are important to them.

State-sponsored attackers gather intelligence or commit sabotage on behalf of their government. They are usually highly trained and well-funded and their attacks are focused on specific goals that are beneficial to their government.

->Cyberwarfare, as its name suggests, is the use of technology to penetrate and attack another nation’s computer systems and networks in an effort to cause damage or disrupt services, such as shutting down a power grid.

One example of a state-sponsored attack involved the Stuxnet malware that was designed not just to hijack targeted computers but to actually cause physical damage to equipment controlled by computers!
case of Iran 


CYBERATTACKS

malware:  Malware is any code that can be used to steal data, bypass access controls, or cause harm to or compromise a system. Knowing what the different types are and how they spread is key to containing and removing them.
spyware: esigned to track and spy on you, spyware monitors your online activity and can log every key you press on your keyboard, as well as capture almost any of your data, including sensitive personal information such as your online banking details. Spyware does this by modifying the security settings on your devices. ---  budles itself in trojan or software 
adware: Adware is often installed with some versions of software and is designed to automatically deliver advertisements to a user, most often on a web browser.
backdoor: This type of malware is used to gain unauthorized access by bypassing the normal authentication procedures to access a system. 
ransomware: This malware is designed to hold a computer system or the data it contains captive until a payment is made. Ransomware usually works by encrypting your data so that you can’t access it.
scareware: This is a type of malware that uses 'scare’ tactics to trick you into taking a specific action. Scareware mainly consists of operating system style windows that pop up to warn you that your system is at risk and needs to run a specific program for it to return to normal operation.
rootkit: This malware is designed to modify the operating system to create a backdoor, which attackers can then use to access your computer remotely
virus: A virus is a type of computer program that, when executed, replicates and attaches itself to other executable files, such as a document, by inserting its own code. Most viruses require end-user interaction to initiate activation and can be written to act on a specific date or time.
trojan: This malware carries out malicious operations by masking its true intent. It might appear legitimate but is, in fact, very dangerous. Trojans exploit your user privileges and are most often found in image files, audio files or games.



Regardless of the type of malware a system has been infected with, there are some common symptoms to look out for. These include:
• an increase in central processing unit (CPU) usage, which slows down your device
• your computer freezing or crashing often
• a decrease in your web browsing speed
• unexplainable problems with your network connections
• modified or deleted files
• the presence of unknown files, programs or desktop icons
• unknown processes running
• programs turning off or reconfiguring themselves
• emails being sent without your knowledge or consent.

Carrying out brute-force attacks involves the attacker trying several possible combinations in an attempt to guess the password. These attacks usually involve a word-list file — a text file containing a list of words from a dictionary. A program such as Ophcrack, L0phtCrack, THC Hydra, RainbowCrack or Medusa will then try each word and common combinations until it finds a match.

types of attacks: 
1) Social Engineering : social engineering is the manipulation of people into performing actions or divulging confidential information
  1- quid pro quo: This is when an attacker requests personal information from a person in exchange for something, like a free gift.
  2- Tailgating: This is when an attacker quickly follows an authorized person into a secure, physical location.
  3- Pretexting: This is when an attacker calls an individual and lies to them in an attempt to gain access to privileged data.

2) Denial of Service: Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks are a type of network attack that is relatively simple to carry out, even by an unskilled attacker. A DoS attack results in some sort of interruption of network service to users, devices or applications.
  1- overwhelming quantity of traffic: sending enormous amount of data at a rate which the system cant handle.
  2- maliciously formatted packets: packets are collection data that flows between a source and a receiver computer or application over a network. when a maliciously formatted packet is sent the receiver will be unable to handle it.

3) distributed DOS: Dos which originates from multiple cooordinated spources.
An attacker builds a network (botnet) of infected hosts called zombies, which are controlled by handler systems.
The zombie computers will constantly scan and infect more hosts, creating more and more zombies.
When ready, the hacker will instruct the handler systems to make the botnet of zombies carry out a DDoS attack.

4) Botnet:
A bot computer is typically infected by visiting an unsafe website or opening an infected email attachment or infected media file. A botnet is a group of bots, connected through the Internet, that can be controlled by a malicious individual or group. It can have tens of thousands, or even hundreds of thousands, of bots that are typically controlled through a command and control server.

1. Infected bots try to communicate with a command and control host on the Internet.
2. The Cisco Firewall botnet filter is a feature that detects traffic coming from devices infected with the malicious botnet code.
3. The cloud-based Cisco Security Intelligence Operations (SIO) service pushes down updated filters to the firewall that match traffic from new known botnets.
4. Alerts go out to Cisco's internal security team to notify them about the infected devices that are generating malicious traffic so that they can prevent, mitigate and remedy these.

5) On paths Attacks:
On-path attackers intercept or modify communications between two devices, such as a web browser and a web server, either to collect information from or to impersonate one of the devices.
  1- man-in-the-middle attack
  2- mobile main in the middle

6) SEO poisioning:
s about improving an organization’s website so that it gains greater visibility in search engine results.

7) Wi-Fi Password Cracking

8) Password Attacks
  1- password spraying:This technique attempts to gain access to a system by ‘spraying’ a few commonly used passwords across a large number of accounts. For example, a cybercriminal uses 'Password123' with many usernames before trying again with a second commonly-used password, such as ‘qwerty.’
  2- dictionary attack: A hacker systematically tries every word in a dictionary or a list of commonly used words as a password in an attempt to break into a password-protected account.
  3- bruteforce attack: The simplest and most commonly used way of gaining access to a password-protected site, brute-force attacks see an attacker using all possible combinations of letters, numbers and symbols in the password space until they get it right.
  4- ranbow attack: Passwords in a computer system are not stored as plain text, but as hashed values (numerical values that uniquely identify data). A rainbow table is a large dictionary of precomputed hashes and the passwords from which they were calculated.
  5- traffic interception: Plain text or unencrypted passwords can be easily read by other humans and machines by intercepting communications.
If you store a password in clear, readable text, anyone who has access to your account or device, whether authorized or unauthorized, can read it.
  6- Advanced Persistent Threats:
Attackers also achieve infiltration through advanced persistent threats (APTs) — a multi-phase, long term, stealthy and advanced operation against a specific target. For these reasons, an individual attacker often lacks the skill set, resources or persistence to perform APTs.
Due to the complexity and the skill level required to carry out such an attack, an APT is usually well-funded and typically targets organizations or nations for business or political reasons.
Its main purpose is to deploy customized malware on one or more of the target’s systems and remain there undetected.

-> Security vulnerablities:
Security vulnerabilities are any kind of software or hardware defect. A program written to take advantage of a known vulnerability is referred to as an exploit. A cybercriminal can use an exploit against a vulnerability to carry out an attack, the goal of which is to gain access to a system, the data it hosts or a specific resource.

  1) Hardware Vulnerabilities
Hardware vulnerabilities are most often the result of hardware design flaws. For example, the type of memory called RAM basically consists of lots of capacitors (a component which can hold an electrical charge) installed very close to one another. However, it was soon discovered that, due to their close proximity, changes applied to one of these capacitors could influence neighbor capacitors. Based on this design flaw, an exploit called Rowhammer was created. By repeatedly accessing (hammering) a row of memory, the Rowhammer exploit triggers electrical interferences that eventually corrupt the data stored inside the RAM.

  2) Meltdown and Spectre
Google security researchers discovered Meltdown and Spectre, two hardware vulnerabilities that affect almost all central processing units (CPUs) released since 1995 within desktops, laptops, servers, smartphones, smart devices and cloud services.

Attackers exploiting these vulnerabilities can read all memory from a given system (Meltdown), as well as data handled by other applications (Spectre). The Meltdown and Spectre vulnerability exploitations are referred to as side-channel attacks (information is gained from the implementation of a computer system). They have the ability to compromise large amounts of memory data because the attacks can be run multiple times on a system with very little possibility of a crash or other error.

icon of a shield melting down, to represent Meltdown, and icon of a ghost, to represent Spectre

  3) Software Vulnerabilities
Software vulnerabilities are usually introduced by errors in the operating system or application code.
    1-Buffers are memory areas allocated to an application. A vulnerability occurs when data is written beyond the limits of a buffer. By changing data beyond the boundaries of a buffer, the application can access memory allocated to other processes. This can lead to a system crash or data compromise, or provide escalation of privileges.

    2- Non-validated input: Programs often require data input, but this incoming data could have malicious content, designed to force the program to behave in an unintended way.

For example, consider a program that receives an image for processing. A malicious user could craft an image file with invalid image dimensions. The maliciously crafted dimensions could force the program to allocate buffers of incorrect and unexpected sizes.
    3-RACE condition: This vulnerability describes a situation where the output of an event depends on ordered or timed outputs. A race condition becomes a source of vulnerability when the required ordered or timed events do not occur in the correct order or at the proper time.

    4- weakness in seciurity practices:
Systems and sensitive data can be protected through techniques such as authentication, authorization and encryption. Developers should stick to using security techniques and libraries that have already been created, tested and verified and should not attempt to create their own security algorithms. These will only likely introduce new vulnerabilities

    5- Access control:
Access control is the process of controlling who does what and ranges from managing physical access to equipment to dictating who has access to a resource, such as a file, and what they can do with it, such as read or change the file. Many security vulnerabilities are created by the improper use of access controls.

-> Protecting Your Computing Devices
1) turn on firewall:
You should use at least one type of firewall (either a software firewall or a hardware firewall on a router) to protect your device from unauthorized access. The firewall should be turned on and constantly updated to prevent hackers from accessing your personal or organization data.
2) antivirus and antispyware:
Malicious software, such as viruses and spyware, are designed to gain unauthorized access to your computer and your data. Once installed, viruses can destroy your data and slow down your computer. They can even take over your computer and broadcast spam emails using your account. Spyware can monitor your online activities, collect your personal information or produce unwanted pop-up ads on your web browser while you are online.


->Cisco products:

That's not right.
@Apollo has the following security appliances in place:
⚫ Cisco Integrated Services Router (ISR) 4000. These routers have many capabilities, including traffic filtering, the ability to run an intrusion prevention system (IPS), encryption and VPN capabilities for secure encrypted tunneling.
• Cisco's Firepower 4100 Series is a next generation firewall that has all the capabilities of an ISR router, as well as advanced network management and analytics. It can help you to see what's happening on the network so that you can detect attacks earlier.
• Cisco's AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client is a VPN system that lets remote workers use a secure encrypted tunnel from their mobile computer to securely connect back to the organization's network. All Cisco security appliances are equipped with a VPN server and client technology, designed for secure encrypted tunneling.
• Cisco's Advanced Malware Protection (AMP) is installed in next generation Cisco routers, firewalls, IPS devices and web and email security appliances. It can also be installed as software in host computers.
Go back, reset and try again. Remember, there are valuable defender points up for grabs!

-> firewall:
a firewall is designed to control or filter which communications are allowed in and which are allowed out of a device or network. A firewall can be installed on a single computer with the purpose of protecting that one computer (host-based firewall) or it can be a standalone network device that protects an entire network of computers and all of the host devices on that network (network-based firewall).

1) network layer firewall:
filters communications based on src n dest IP
2) Transport layer protocol:
source and destination data ports, as well as connection states
3) application layer firewall:
Filters communications based on an application, program or service
4) context aware layer:
Filters communications based on the user, device, role, application type and threat profile.
5) proxy server: 
filters web content requests like URLS,domain names and media types.
6) reverse proxy server;
Placed in front of web servers, reverse proxy servers protect, hide, offload and distribute access to web servers
7) network address translation firewall:
This firewall hides or masquerades the private addresses of network hosts.
8) host baes firewall:
Filters ports and system service calls on a single computer operating system.

->portscanning: Port scanning is a process of probing a computer, server or other network host for open ports. It can be used maliciously as a reconnaissance tool to identify the operating system and services running on a computer or host, or it can be used harmlessly by a network administrator to verify network security policies on the network.

-> behavior-based 
1) honeypots: lures the attacker in by appeaing to their predicted pattern of malicious behaviour.
2) Cisco's cyber threat defense solution architeure:

netflow: about data flowing through a network, including who and what devices are in the network, and when and how users and devices access the network.
NetFlow is an important component in behavior-based detection and analysis. Switches, routers and firewalls equipped with NetFlow can report information about data entering, leaving and traveling through the network. 

-> pentesting 
Penetration testing, commonly known as pen testing, is the act of assessing a computer system, network or organization for security vulnerabilities. A pen test seeks to breach systems, people, processes and code to uncover vulnerabilities which could be exploited. This information is then used to improve the system’s defenses to ensure that it is better able to withstand cyber attacks in the future.
  1) planning: The pen tester gathers as much information as possible about a target system or network, its potential vulnerabilities and exploits to use against it. This involves conducting passive or active reconnaissance (footprinting) and vulnerability research.
  2) scanning: 
The pen tester carries out active reconnaissance to probe a target system or network and identify potential weaknesses which, if exploited, could give an attacker access. Active reconnaissance may include:
port scanning to identify potential access points into a target system
vulnerability scanning to identify potential exploitable vulnerabilities of a particular target
establishing an active connection to a target (enumeration) to identify the user account, system account and admin account.
  3) gaining access:
The pen tester will attempt to gain access to a target system and sniff network traffic, using various methods to exploit the system including:
launching an exploit with a payload onto the system
breaching physical barriers to assets
social engineering
exploiting website vulnerabilities
exploiting software and hardware vulnerabilities or misconfigurations
breaching access controls security
cracking weak encrypted Wi-Fi.
  4) maintaining access:
The pen tester will maintain access to the target to find out what data and systems are vulnerable to exploitation. It is important that they remain undetected, typically using backdoors, Trojan horses, rootkits and other covert channels to hide their presence.
When this infrastructure is in place, the pen tester will then proceed to gather the data that they consider valuable.
  5) analysis and reporting:
The pen tester will provide feedback via a report that recommends updates to products, policies and training to improve an organization’s security.

-> Risk Management:
Risk management is the formal process of continuously identifying and assessing risk in an effort to reduce the impact of threats and vulnerabilities. You cannot eliminate risk completely but you can determine acceptable levels by weighing up the impact of a threat with the cost of implementing controls to mitigate it. The cost of a control should never be more than the value of the asset you are protecting.

->  Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT)



An IPS can block or deny traffic based on a positive rule or signature match.
An IDS scans data against a database of rules or attack signatures, looking for malicious traffic.
A DLP system is designed to stop sensitive data from being stolen from or escaping a network.
A SIEM system collects and analyzes security alerts, logs and other real-time and historical data from security devices on the network.
