4 types of local networks
1) small home networks
2) SOHO networks
3) medu=ium to large networks
4) world wide networks

There are three common methods of signal transmission used in networks:

Electrical signals - Transmission is achieved by representing data as electrical pulses on copper wire.
Optical signals - Transmission is achieved by converting the electrical signals into light pulses.
Wireless signals - Transmission is achieved by using infrared, microwave, or radio waves through the air.

bandwidth is capacity of medium to carry data

throughput: throughput is the measure of the transfer of bits across the media over a given period of time. However, due to a number of factors, throughput does not usually match the specified bandwidth. M

All computers connected to a network that participate directly in network communication are classified as hosts. Hosts can send and receive messages on the network. In modern networks, computer hosts can act as a client, a server, or both. The software installed on the computer determines which role the computer plays.

Client and server software usually run on separate computers, but it is also possible for one computer to run both client and server software at the same time. In small businesses and homes, many computers function as the servers and clients on the network. This type of network is called a P2P network. In larger businesses, because of the potential for high amounts of network traffic, it is often necessary to have dedicated servers to support the number of service requests. P2P networks are easy to set up, less complex, lower in cost, and can be used for simple tasks such as transferring files and sharing printers. However, there is no centralized administration. They have less security, are not scalable, and can perform slower

Pairing describes connecting two devices using Bluetooth. Syncing Is the term used to describe synchronizing emails and calendars across a number of devices.
Tethering  to describe connecting a mobile device to another mobile device or computer to share a network connection

The wireless technologies most frequently used in home networks are in the unlicensed 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz frequency ranges.

Bluetooth is a technology that makes use of the 2.4 GHz band. It is limited to low-speed, short-range communications, but has the advantage of communicating with many devices at the same time. This one-to-many communication has made Bluetooth technology the preferred method for connecting computer peripherals such as wireless mice, keyboards and printers. Bluetooth is a good method for transmitting audio to speakers or headphones.

Other technologies that use the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands are the modern wireless LAN technologies that conform to the various IEEE 802.11 standards. Unlike Bluetooth technology, 802.11 devices transmit at a much higher power level giving them a great range and improved throughput. Certain areas of the electromagnetic spectrum can be used without a permit.

Wired Network Technologies
1) Category 5e is the most common wiring used in a LAN. The cable is made up of 4 pairs of wires that are twisted to reduce electrical interference.
2) Coaxial cable has an inner wire surrounded by a tubular insulating layer, that is then surrounded by a tubular conducting shield. Most coax cables also have an external insulating sheath or jacket.
3) Fiber-optic cables can be either glass or plastic with a diameter about the same as a human hair and it can carry digital information at very high speeds over long distances. Fiber-optic cables have a very high bandwidth, which enables them to carry very large amounts of data.

Wi-Fi Networks
A number of standards have been developed to ensure that wireless devices can communicate. They specify the RF spectrum used, data rates, how the information is transmitted, and more. The main organization responsible for the creation of wireless technical standards is the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).

The IEEE 802.11 standard governs the WLAN environment. There are amendments to the IEEE 802.11 standard that describe characteristics for different standards of wireless communications. Wireless standards for LANs use the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz frequency bands. Collectively these technologies are referred to as Wi-Fi.

Another organization, known as the Wi-Fi Alliance, is responsible for testing wireless LAN devices from different manufacturers. The Wi-Fi logo on a device means that this equipment meets standards and should operate with other devices that use the same standard.

 Wireless Settings
1) Network mode: Determines the type of technology that must be supported. For example,802.11b,802.11g,802.11n or Mixed Mode.
2) Network Name(SSID): Used to identify the WLAN. All devices that wish to participate in the WLAN must have the same SSID.
3) Standard Channel: Specifies the channel over which communication will occur. By default, this is set to Auto to allow the access point (AP) to determine the optimum channel to use.
4) SSID: Determines if the SSID will be broadcast to all devices within range. By default, set to Enabled.
Note: SSID stands for Service Set Identifier.

Network Mode

The 802.11 protocol can provide increased throughput based on the wireless network environment. If all wireless devices connect with the same 802.11 standard, maximum speeds can be obtained for that standard. If the access point is configured to accept only one 802.11 standard, devices that do not use that standard cannot connect to the access point.

A mixed mode wireless network environment can include devices that use any of the existing Wi-Fi standards. This environment provides easy access for older devices that need a wireless connection but do not support the latest standards.

When building a wireless network, it is important that the wireless components connect to the appropriate WLAN. This is done using the SSID.

The SSID is a case-sensitive, alphanumeric string that contains up to 32 characters. It is sent in the header of all frames transmitted over the WLAN. The SSID is used to tell wireless devices, called wireless stations (STAs), which WLAN they belong to and with which other devices they can communicate.

We use the SSID to identify a specific wireless network. It is essentially the name of the network. Wireless routers usually broadcast their configured SSIDs by default. The SSID broadcast allows other devices and wireless clients to automatically discover the name of the wireless network. When the SSID broadcast is disabled, you must manually enter the SSID on wireless devices.


 Design Considerations

Disabling SSID broadcasting can make it more difficult for legitimate clients to find the wireless network. However, simply turning off the SSID broadcast is not sufficient to prevent unauthorized clients from connecting to the wireless network. All wireless networks should use the strongest available encryption to restrict unauthorized access

If SSID broadcasting is on, the SSID name will be seen by all wireless clients within your signal range. Many times the SSID gives away too much information about the network to unknown client devices. It is not a good practice to include the device model or brand name as part of the SSID. Wireless devices have default settings that are easy to find on the internet, as well as known security weaknesses.
Wireless devices contain radio transmitter/receivers that function within a specific frequency range. If a device only has the necessary radio for 802.11 b/g, it will not connect if the wireless router or access point is configured to only accept 802.11n or 802.11ac standards. If all devices support the same standard, the network will work at its optimum speed. If you have devices that do not support the n or ac standards, then you will have to enable legacy mode. A legacy mode wireless network environment varies between router models but can include a combination of 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11g, 802.11n, and 802.11ac. This environment provides easy access for legacy devices that need a wireless connection.
The decision regarding who can access your home network should be determined by how you plan to use the network. On some wireless routers, it is possible to set up guest access. This is a special SSID coverage area that allows open access but restricts that access to using the internet only.

The figure shows a wireless setup screen.

Note: Some wireless routers may label legacy mode as mixed mode.
